PROBLEM DEFINITION:

The project we chose basically focuses on a program used by WE CARE multispecialty hospital, to save patient records, retrieve them and add new patient records, There are 2 basic classes IN and OUT patients respectively 
It focuses on the date of entry of patient, patient history and bio data of the patients and the diet and medicines prescribed by the doctor.
The other activities performed by this program is
Maintenance of patient details (IN/OUT)
Prescriptions for the patients suggested by the doctor
Test details to be taken for the patient
Booking the room for the patient
Producing the bills at the time of patients departure
Preparation of reports


MAINTENANCE OF PATIENT DETAILS:

The hospital maintains 2 registers called inpatient register and outpatient register. In this register it keeps track of:
Patient personal details (name, age, address, male/female, patient id no - to be generated automatically)
Only inpatients will be admitted with allocation of room.
Outpatients will be prescribed medicines only.

Patients entry form:
This is only for inpatients, its format will be give in the later sections of this paper
 
Patients prescription:
For the inpatient the prescribed medicine, test to be taken, the diet, prescribed by the doctor will be recorded in this table.

Bill Register:
Bill should be prepared for the patient getting discharged and should be updated in the bill register.

Reports needed:
The formats of the various reports, which are required by management and for the billing are described in the later sections.
	                     
Bill:
Bills are generated at the time of the patient’s discharge. Hospital clerk updates this in the inpatient register with the date of discharge.
Complete history of the patient
The complete history of the patient is to be recorded in the hospital records.

Checks and validations:
The following checks have been incorporated in the given program.
-Same room should not be allotted for 2 patients
-Same patient name can exist; medicine and diet to be prescribed should be checked with the doctor name, patient name, problem type and patient number.

Problem Analysis:

‘Roomclass’ is the structure in which the ID number of the patient in the room is stored in. Each object of this structure is an individual room.

‘GlobalID’ is the structure by which automatic ID assignation is done by giving it the value of the next ID number

‘Checks’ is a structure whose objects have variables for checking if user has inputted atleast 1 in & out patient

‘dateclass’ is a structure holding variables d, m, & y and it is used for date operations. It has member functions of ‘systime’ which inputs the computer’s dates, ‘input’ which gets user-input of dates, ‘display’ which displays the d, m and y variables.

’Inpatient’ is an independent class housing the following data members:
 int id;
 dateclass dadmin;
 dateclass ddisch;
 int roomno;
 char name[20];
 char doctor[20];
 int age;
 char address[200];
 char gender;
 char problem[20];
 char medicine[20];
 char diet[100];
 char test[20];
 char status[20];
 char health[20];
 int roomfee;
 int labfee;
 int medicinefee;
 int testfee;
 int total;
 int used;

It also has an ‘input’ function to get all these details
It has a ‘details’ function to display all the details of the patient
It has a function ‘billamount’ to calculate the bill for the function, and a function ‘billdisplay’ to display it
It also has a function ‘discharge’ to discharge details and date of the patient and a function ‘dischargedisplay’ to display the details
Mainly there is also a function ‘giveroom’ to allocate the room for the patient; in other words this function generates the link between rooms and inpatients.
It contains ‘giveid’ function which assigns an unique  ID to a new patient.

It contains a function ‘retused’ for returning value of used

It contains a function ‘getname’ for displaying name of patient

It contains a function ‘getid’ for displaying ID no of patient

It has a function ‘empty’ for resetting the values of all datamembers

It has a function ‘emptyrooms’ for resetting values of all rooms to 0

It has a function ‘retroom’ which returns the ID no of patient stored in the selected room.

’outpatient’ is also another independent class housing the following data members:
 int id;
 dateclass dvisit;
 char name[20];
 int age;
 char address[200];
 char gender;
 char problem[20];
 char medicine[20];
 int used;


It has an input function, ‘input’ to get the details of the patient

It has a details function, ‘details’ to display the details of the outpatient.

It contains ‘giveid’ function which assigns an unique  ID to a new patient.

It contains a function ‘retused’ for returning value of used

It contains a function ‘getname’ for displaying name of patient

It contains a function ‘getid’ for displaying ID no of patient

It has a function ‘empty’ for resetting the values of all datamembers
It contains ‘giveid’ function which assigns an unique  ID to a new patient.




Main function:
 
The main function has the following datamembers:

 fstream fh, fr , fg , fc, fcheck;
 inpatient ip[101];
 outpatient op[101];
 char ch, rep;
 int number, n, i, back;

 it has 100 available inpatient and outpatient slots,
It is coded in such a way to generate the menu driven program, which has many lines of code to perform
1.Register In-Patients
 2.Register Out-Patients
 3.Discharge a Patient
 4.View Reports of In-Patients
 5.View Reports of Out-Patients
 6.Search and view rooms and occupants
 7.Backup current Database to file
 8.Restore previously backed up database
 9.Empty the Database


